README.md, before:

# kickstart.nvim

## Introduction

A starting point for Neovim that is:

* Small
* Single-file
* Completely Documented

**NOT** a Neovim distribution, but instead a starting point for your configuration.

## Installation

### Install Neovim

Kickstart.nvim targets *only* the latest
['stable'](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/stable) and latest
['nightly'](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/nightly) of Neovim.
If you are experiencing issues, please make sure you have the latest versions.

### Install External Dependencies

> **NOTE**
> [Backup](#FAQ) your previous configuration (if any exists)

External Requirements:
- Basic utils: `git`, `make`, `unzip`, C Compiler (`gcc`)
- [ripgrep](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep#installation)
- A [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/): optional, provides various icons
  - if you have it set `vim.g.have_nerd_font` in `init.lua` to true
- Language Setup:
  - If want to write Typescript, you need `npm`
  - If want to write Golang, you will need `go`
  - etc.

> **NOTE**
> See [Install Recipes](#Install-Recipes) for additional Windows and Linux specific notes
> and quick install snippets

Neovim's configurations are located under the following paths, depending on your OS:

| OS | PATH |
| :- | :--- |
| Linux, MacOS | `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/nvim`, `~/.config/nvim` |
| Windows (cmd)| `%userprofile%\AppData\Local\nvim\` |
| Windows (powershell)| `$env:USERPROFILE\AppData\Local\nvim\` |

### Install Kickstart

Clone kickstart.nvim:

<details><summary> Linux and Mac </summary>

```sh
git clone https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim.git "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-$HOME/.config}"/nvim
```

</details>

<details><summary> Windows </summary>

If you're using `cmd.exe`:

```
git clone https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim.git %userprofile%\AppData\Local\nvim\
```

If you're using `powershell.exe`

```
git clone https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim.git $env:USERPROFILE\AppData\Local\nvim\
```

</details>

### Post Installation

Start Neovim

```sh
nvim
```

That's it! Lazy will install all the plugins you have. Use `:Lazy` to view
current plugin status.

Read through the `init.lua` file in your configuration folder for more
information about extending and exploring Neovim.

### Getting Started

[The Only Video You Need to Get Started with Neovim](https://youtu.be/m8C0Cq9Uv9o)

### Recommended Steps

[Fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) this repo
(so that you have your own copy that you can modify) and then install. You
can install it on your machine using the methods above.

> **NOTE**
> Your fork's url will be something like this: `https://github.com/<your_github_username>/kickstart.nvim.git`

#### Examples of adding popularly requested plugins

NOTE: You'll need to uncomment the line in the init.lua that turns on loading custom plugins.

<details>
  <summary>Adding autopairs</summary>

This will automatically install [windwp/nvim-autopairs](https://github.com/windwp/nvim-autopairs) and enable it on startup. For more information, see documentation for [lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim).

In the file: `lua/custom/plugins/autopairs.lua`, add:

```lua
-- File: lua/custom/plugins/autopairs.lua

return {
  "windwp/nvim-autopairs",
  -- Optional dependency
  dependencies = { 'hrsh7th/nvim-cmp' },
  config = function()
    require("nvim-autopairs").setup {}
    -- If you want to automatically add `(` after selecting a function or method
    local cmp_autopairs = require('nvim-autopairs.completion.cmp')
    local cmp = require('cmp')
    cmp.event:on(
      'confirm_done',
      cmp_autopairs.on_confirm_done()
    )
  end,
}
```

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Adding a file tree plugin</summary>

This will install the tree plugin and add the command `:Neotree` for you. For more information, see the documentation at [neo-tree.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-neo-tree/neo-tree.nvim).

In the file: `lua/custom/plugins/filetree.lua`, add:

```lua
-- File: lua/custom/plugins/filetree.lua

return {
  "nvim-neo-tree/neo-tree.nvim",
  version = "*",
  dependencies = {
    "nvim-lua/plenary.nvim",
    "nvim-tree/nvim-web-devicons", -- not strictly required, but recommended
    "MunifTanjim/nui.nvim",
  },
  config = function ()
    require('neo-tree').setup {}
  end,
}
```

</details>

### FAQ

* What should I do if I already have a pre-existing neovim configuration?
  * You should back it up and then delete all associated files.
  * This includes your existing init.lua and the neovim files in `~/.local` which can be deleted with `rm -rf ~/.local/share/nvim/`
* Can I keep my existing configuration in parallel to kickstart?
  * Yes! You can use [NVIM_APPNAME](https://neovim.io/doc/user/starting.html#%24NVIM_APPNAME)`=nvim-NAME` to maintain multiple configurations. For example, you can install the kickstart configuration in `~/.config/nvim-kickstart` and create an alias:
    ```
    alias nvim-kickstart='NVIM_APPNAME="nvim-kickstart" nvim'
    ```
    When you run Neovim using `nvim-kickstart` alias it will use the alternative config directory and the matching local directory `~/.local/share/nvim-kickstart`. You can apply this approach to any Neovim distribution that you would like to try out.
* What if I want to "uninstall" this configuration:
  * See [lazy.nvim uninstall](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim#-uninstalling) information
* Why is the kickstart `init.lua` a single file? Wouldn't it make sense to split it into multiple files?
  * The main purpose of kickstart is to serve as a teaching tool and a reference
    configuration that someone can easily use to `git clone` as a basis for their own.
    As you progress in learning Neovim and Lua, you might consider splitting `init.lua`
    into smaller parts. A fork of kickstart that does this while maintaining the 
    same functionality is available here:
    * [kickstart-modular.nvim](https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart-modular.nvim)
  * Discussions on this topic can be found here:
    * [Restructure the configuration](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/issues/218)
    * [Reorganize init.lua into a multi-file setup](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/pull/473)

### Install Recipes

Below you can find OS specific install instructions for Neovim and dependencies.

After installing all the dependencies continue with the [Install Kickstart](#Install-Kickstart) step.

#### Windows Installation

<details><summary>Windows with Microsoft C++ Build Tools and CMake</summary>
Installation may require installing build tools and updating the run command for `telescope-fzf-native`

See `telescope-fzf-native` documentation for [more details](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim#installation)

This requires:

- Install CMake and the Microsoft C++ Build Tools on Windows

```lua
{'nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim', build = 'cmake -S. -Bbuild -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release && cmake --build build --config Release && cmake --install build --prefix build' }
```
</details>
<details><summary>Windows with gcc/make using chocolatey</summary>
Alternatively, one can install gcc and make which don't require changing the config,
the easiest way is to use choco:

1. install [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/install)
either follow the instructions on the page or use winget,
run in cmd as **admin**:
```
winget install --accept-source-agreements chocolatey.chocolatey
```

2. install all requirements using choco, exit previous cmd and
open a new one so that choco path is set, and run in cmd as **admin**:
```
choco install -y neovim git ripgrep wget fd unzip gzip mingw make
```
</details>
<details><summary>WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)</summary>

```
wsl --install
wsl
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/unstable -y
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip neovim
```
</details>

#### Linux Install
<details><summary>Ubuntu Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/unstable -y
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip neovim
```
</details>
<details><summary>Debian Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip git
echo "deb https://deb.debian.org/debian unstable main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -t unstable neovim
```
</details>
<details><summary>Fedora Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo dnf install -y gcc make git ripgrep fd-find neovim
```
</details>

Commit message:

Update README.md (#781)
The recommended step of forking the repo coming sequentially after the step instructing users to clone the current repo doesn't make sense.

This commit orders the install instructions in a manner that's more logical.

README.md, after:

# kickstart.nvim

## Introduction

A starting point for Neovim that is:

* Small
* Single-file
* Completely Documented

**NOT** a Neovim distribution, but instead a starting point for your configuration.

## Installation

### Install Neovim

Kickstart.nvim targets *only* the latest
['stable'](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/stable) and latest
['nightly'](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/nightly) of Neovim.
If you are experiencing issues, please make sure you have the latest versions.

### Install External Dependencies

> **NOTE**
> [Backup](#FAQ) your previous configuration (if any exists)

External Requirements:
- Basic utils: `git`, `make`, `unzip`, C Compiler (`gcc`)
- [ripgrep](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep#installation)
- A [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/): optional, provides various icons
  - if you have it set `vim.g.have_nerd_font` in `init.lua` to true
- Language Setup:
  - If want to write Typescript, you need `npm`
  - If want to write Golang, you will need `go`
  - etc.

> **NOTE**
> See [Install Recipes](#Install-Recipes) for additional Windows and Linux specific notes
> and quick install snippets

Neovim's configurations are located under the following paths, depending on your OS:

| OS | PATH |
| :- | :--- |
| Linux, MacOS | `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/nvim`, `~/.config/nvim` |
| Windows (cmd)| `%userprofile%\AppData\Local\nvim\` |
| Windows (powershell)| `$env:USERPROFILE\AppData\Local\nvim\` |

### Install Kickstart

#### Recommended Step

[Fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) this repo so that you have your own copy that you can modify, then install by cloning the fork to your machine using one of the commands below, depending on your OS.

> **NOTE**
> Your fork's url will be something like this: `https://github.com/<your_github_username>/kickstart.nvim.git`

#### Clone kickstart.nvim
> **NOTE**
> If following the recommended step above (i.e., forking the repo), replace `nvim-lua` with `<your_github_username>` in the commands below

<details><summary> Linux and Mac </summary>

```sh
git clone https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim.git "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-$HOME/.config}"/nvim
```

</details>

<details><summary> Windows </summary>

If you're using `cmd.exe`:

```
git clone https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim.git %userprofile%\AppData\Local\nvim\
```

If you're using `powershell.exe`

```
git clone https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim.git $env:USERPROFILE\AppData\Local\nvim\
```

</details>

### Post Installation

Start Neovim

```sh
nvim
```

That's it! Lazy will install all the plugins you have. Use `:Lazy` to view
current plugin status.

Read through the `init.lua` file in your configuration folder for more
information about extending and exploring Neovim.


#### Examples of adding popularly requested plugins

NOTE: You'll need to uncomment the line in the init.lua that turns on loading custom plugins.

<details>
  <summary>Adding autopairs</summary>

This will automatically install [windwp/nvim-autopairs](https://github.com/windwp/nvim-autopairs) and enable it on startup. For more information, see documentation for [lazy.nvim](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim).

In the file: `lua/custom/plugins/autopairs.lua`, add:

```lua
-- File: lua/custom/plugins/autopairs.lua

return {
  "windwp/nvim-autopairs",
  -- Optional dependency
  dependencies = { 'hrsh7th/nvim-cmp' },
  config = function()
    require("nvim-autopairs").setup {}
    -- If you want to automatically add `(` after selecting a function or method
    local cmp_autopairs = require('nvim-autopairs.completion.cmp')
    local cmp = require('cmp')
    cmp.event:on(
      'confirm_done',
      cmp_autopairs.on_confirm_done()
    )
  end,
}
```

</details>
<details>
  <summary>Adding a file tree plugin</summary>

This will install the tree plugin and add the command `:Neotree` for you. For more information, see the documentation at [neo-tree.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-neo-tree/neo-tree.nvim).

In the file: `lua/custom/plugins/filetree.lua`, add:

```lua
-- File: lua/custom/plugins/filetree.lua

return {
  "nvim-neo-tree/neo-tree.nvim",
  version = "*",
  dependencies = {
    "nvim-lua/plenary.nvim",
    "nvim-tree/nvim-web-devicons", -- not strictly required, but recommended
    "MunifTanjim/nui.nvim",
  },
  config = function ()
    require('neo-tree').setup {}
  end,
}
```

</details>

### Getting Started

[The Only Video You Need to Get Started with Neovim](https://youtu.be/m8C0Cq9Uv9o)

### FAQ

* What should I do if I already have a pre-existing neovim configuration?
  * You should back it up and then delete all associated files.
  * This includes your existing init.lua and the neovim files in `~/.local` which can be deleted with `rm -rf ~/.local/share/nvim/`
* Can I keep my existing configuration in parallel to kickstart?
  * Yes! You can use [NVIM_APPNAME](https://neovim.io/doc/user/starting.html#%24NVIM_APPNAME)`=nvim-NAME` to maintain multiple configurations. For example, you can install the kickstart configuration in `~/.config/nvim-kickstart` and create an alias:
    ```
    alias nvim-kickstart='NVIM_APPNAME="nvim-kickstart" nvim'
    ```
    When you run Neovim using `nvim-kickstart` alias it will use the alternative config directory and the matching local directory `~/.local/share/nvim-kickstart`. You can apply this approach to any Neovim distribution that you would like to try out.
* What if I want to "uninstall" this configuration:
  * See [lazy.nvim uninstall](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim#-uninstalling) information
* Why is the kickstart `init.lua` a single file? Wouldn't it make sense to split it into multiple files?
  * The main purpose of kickstart is to serve as a teaching tool and a reference
    configuration that someone can easily use to `git clone` as a basis for their own.
    As you progress in learning Neovim and Lua, you might consider splitting `init.lua`
    into smaller parts. A fork of kickstart that does this while maintaining the 
    same functionality is available here:
    * [kickstart-modular.nvim](https://github.com/dam9000/kickstart-modular.nvim)
  * Discussions on this topic can be found here:
    * [Restructure the configuration](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/issues/218)
    * [Reorganize init.lua into a multi-file setup](https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim/pull/473)

### Install Recipes

Below you can find OS specific install instructions for Neovim and dependencies.

After installing all the dependencies continue with the [Install Kickstart](#Install-Kickstart) step.

#### Windows Installation

<details><summary>Windows with Microsoft C++ Build Tools and CMake</summary>
Installation may require installing build tools and updating the run command for `telescope-fzf-native`

See `telescope-fzf-native` documentation for [more details](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim#installation)

This requires:

- Install CMake and the Microsoft C++ Build Tools on Windows

```lua
{'nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim', build = 'cmake -S. -Bbuild -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release && cmake --build build --config Release && cmake --install build --prefix build' }
```
</details>
<details><summary>Windows with gcc/make using chocolatey</summary>
Alternatively, one can install gcc and make which don't require changing the config,
the easiest way is to use choco:

1. install [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/install)
either follow the instructions on the page or use winget,
run in cmd as **admin**:
```
winget install --accept-source-agreements chocolatey.chocolatey
```

2. install all requirements using choco, exit previous cmd and
open a new one so that choco path is set, and run in cmd as **admin**:
```
choco install -y neovim git ripgrep wget fd unzip gzip mingw make
```
</details>
<details><summary>WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)</summary>

```
wsl --install
wsl
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/unstable -y
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip neovim
```
</details>

#### Linux Install
<details><summary>Ubuntu Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:neovim-ppa/unstable -y
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip neovim
```
</details>
<details><summary>Debian Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install make gcc ripgrep unzip git
echo "deb https://deb.debian.org/debian unstable main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -t unstable neovim
```
</details>
<details><summary>Fedora Install Steps</summary>

```
sudo dnf install -y gcc make git ripgrep fd-find neovim
```
</details>
